Title:

    esp_price_ticker

Brief:

    This project implements a currency price ticker using an ESP32 module. The
    price information is fetched from a remote API and displayed on a display
    module, regularly.

Notes:

    2026-06-21: In pursuit of simplifying the display task, I came up with the
    idea to break the task into two separate tasks, one of which handles events
    when the app is showing settings menu and the other task handles events
    while the app is in markets display mode. At any point in time in only one
    task is running, depending on the mode. Once the MENU button is pressed the
    running task notifies the waiting task while putting itself in waiting state
    till receiving a notification from the awakened task.

    2026-06-20: The button events are working more or less flawlessly. However,
    in order to make it easier to iterate over markets indefinitely without the
    need to keep track of any index or out of bound checks, I decided to
    convert the markets list into a circular doubly linked list. This way
    markets can be traversed back and forth and looped over so smoothly, which
    makes the implementation of previous and next button handlers way easier.
    Speaking of button handlers, I have used the display task to receive all
    button events and act upon them by holding a context of the current state
    of the system and this made the task a big pile of if conditions and switch
    cases which I do not really like. Moreover, the settings menu only supports
    a few markets as much as the screen fits. So, I also need to implement an
    automatic pagination for the menu as well.

    2026-06-20: Having verified the correct operation of the HTTP module and
    simple sequential display of markets, It was time to start adding control
    buttons. So, I designed 4 buttons to control how markets are displayed.
    Normally, two buttons are required to display previous or next market on
    the screen. A third button is also needed to switch between settings menu
    and normal markets display. Lastly, the fourth button can be used to pause
    market iteration while in normal mode and enable or disable a market to be
    tracked on the settings menu. Well, the tricky part about buttons is how to
    debounce them. Doing some test, it was found that if a negative edge
    interrupt is used for GPIOs and sending key press events only if the GPIO
    level is zero, and on the other side if the receiving task also checks the
    GPIO for level zero upon event reception, then many of the button glitches
    are normally filtered out without the need for complex delay-based
    debouncing methods.

    2026-06-15: As follow-up, I came up with writing an HTTP app module to
    fetch trades and price informations of currency markets from a remote API.
    I have used a linked list to store information for each market. This could
    be done with arrays to but a linked list seemed easier to iterate in a loop
    and more dynamic, in case there is a need to add or remove markets on the
    fly. Currently, one task iterates over the markets and updates the price of
    each market, while a second task displays the fetched data of each market.
    Since, there is a single writer and a single reader for markets, I don't
    think any access control is required for now.

    2026-06-12: I decided to begin the project by adding basic support for an
    SSD1306 display module via I2C bus. The `esp-idf` already has a driver for
    this module in `esp_lcd` component, but the driver seems too overkill for
    my use case, where I only need to display ASCII characters and no scrolling
    stuffs are required. Hence, I decided to write yet another SSD1306 driver.
    This home-made driver is basically adapted from the `i2c_eeprom` component
    from one of the `esp-idf` example projects and worked upon to finally
    support the SSD1306 module. Notably, the driver divides the screen into a
    16x8 grid where each cell can display an 8x8 pixels bitmap. There is also
    an internal buffer that retains all the ASCII character written on the
    screen so far. This `screen_buffer` can be used to optimise write
    operations by eliminating unnecessary rewrites.
